README.md, before:

# INCEPTION ENGINE

**The AI That Builds With You**

> Every user explores their own Wonderland. Every design element is discoverable. Every interaction teaches through delight.
> 
> *The Alice Principle* - Learning through wonder, exploration through play.

---

## Down the Rabbit Hole

Inception Engine is an AI-native development platform where specialized agents collaborate like a coordinated team. You describe what you want to build. The agents ideate, plan, ship, and validate - producing complete, production-ready output.

This isn't a chatbot. It's not an autocomplete engine. It's a **coordinated intelligence system** governed by a constitutional framework that ensures every output serves the creator, not the platform.

The system was designed from day one around one question:

> **"Does this make artists more free or less free?"**

If less free, we don't build it.

---

## What It Can Do

### Four-Mode Workflow

Every project moves through up to four intentional stages. Use all four, or skip to what you need.

| Mode | What Happens | Output |
|------|-------------|--------|
| **IDEATE** | Full-team brainstorm. All agents contribute. Strategic alignment. | Vision document |
| **PLAN** | Focused specification. Architecture decisions. Task breakdown. | Technical spec |
| **SHIP** | Implementation to production. Cannot exit until live and accessible. | Working application |
| **VALIDATE** | Independent quality review by a separate team of agents. | Assessment report |

**Choose your path:**
- **Full Lifecycle**: IDEATE > PLAN > SHIP > VALIDATE (enterprise)
- **Rapid**: IDEATE > SHIP > VALIDATE (fast prototypes)
- **Express**: SHIP > VALIDATE (prompt to production)
- **Continuous**: VALIDATE > SHIP (maintenance)

### Constitutional Governance

19 articles. Zero tolerance for theft. Complete solutions only - never MVPs. Open standards, no lock-in. Every agent, every operation, every output checked against the constitution.

Three sacred principles:
- **Article 0: No Stealing** - Learn, study, adapt, synthesize. Never copy.
- **Article XVII: Zero Day Creativity** - Ship complete or don't ship. No "we'll fix it later."
- **Article XVIII: Generative Agency** - Digital soil, not digital fences. Users own everything.

[Read the full Constitution](./CONSTITUTION.md)

### Neural Architecture

Five brain-inspired systems coordinate agent communication:

- **PFC Planning** - Executive decision-making and goal decomposition
- **Hippocampal Memory** - Context preservation across modes and sessions
- **Default Mode Network** - Background creative processing and insight generation
- **Small-World Topology** - Any agent reaches any other in 6 hops or fewer
- **Attractor Dynamics** - System converges toward quality, not "good enough"

[Deep dive into neural architecture](./docs/NEURAL_ARCHITECTURE.md)

### The Wonder Engine (Design System)
The Wonder Engine ships as a blank canvas - no opinions about what your project should look like. Describe a mood, upload an image, or set every value by hand. The system generates a complete token set and every component inherits it automatically.

- **Design tokens** - CSS variables, HSL colors, configurable spacing grid
- **Prompt-based generation** - Describe a mood, get a complete theme
- **Image extraction** - Upload any image, extract its palette and atmosphere
- **Motion presets** - Spring, smooth, snappy, or none at all
- **Surface system** - Flat, elevated, blurred, textured - your choice

[Explore the design system](./design-system/)

### MCP Integration

Inception Engine works as an MCP (Model Context Protocol) server, allowing any MCP-compatible client to connect and use the agent system directly.

[MCP setup guide](./docs/MCP_GUIDE.md)

### Browser Automation with COMET

COMET is the browser automation agent. It operates real browsers, manages multiple tabs in parallel, fills forms, navigates sites, and executes multi-step workflows across the web. Pair it with GitHub for automated repo management, CI/CD, and deployment.

[COMET + GitHub guide](./docs/COMET_GITHUB.md)

---

## Quick Start

### 1. Clone and explore

```bash
git clone https://github.com/WholeTroutMedia/inception-engine.git
cd inception-engine
```

### 2. Read the docs

Start with [Getting Started](./docs/GETTING_STARTED.md), then explore:

- [The Four Modes](./docs/FOUR_MODES.md) - How the workflow cycle operates
- [Neural Architecture](./docs/NEURAL_ARCHITECTURE.md) - How agent coordination works
- [Agent Registry](./docs/AGENTS.md) - Meet the 15 agents, 4 hives
- [MCP Guide](./docs/MCP_GUIDE.md) - Connect via Model Context Protocol
- [COMET + GitHub](./docs/COMET_GITHUB.md) - Browser automation and repo management

### 3. Configure

See [`examples/agent-config.json`](./examples/agent-config.json) for a complete configuration template covering agents, modes, neural systems, and constitutional parameters.

## Choose How to Run Inception Engine

Inception Engine plugs into any LLM or platform. Pick the path that fits your workflow:

| Method | Best For | Time to Start |
|--------|----------|---------------|
| [OpenAI / ChatGPT](./docs/setup/openai-chatgpt.md) | Developers with OpenAI API keys | 5 min |
| [Anthropic Claude + MCP](./docs/setup/anthropic-claude-mcp.md) | Claude Desktop users, MCP enthusiasts | 10 min |
| [Google Gemini](./docs/setup/gemini-web-and-cli.md) | Gemini web app or CLI users | 5 min |
| [Perplexity + COMET](./docs/setup/perplexity-and-comet.md) | Research-backed development | 5 min |
| [IDE / Antigravity](./docs/setup/ide-and-antigravity.md) | Developers who live in their editor | 5 min |
| [LLM Gateways + MCP](./docs/setup/llm-gateways-and-mcp.md) | Multi-provider power users | 15 min |
| [No-Code Automation](./docs/setup/no-code-automation.md) | Non-coders, automation builders | 10 min |

[Browse all setup guides](./docs/setup/README.md)

---

## Light Edition vs Full Brainchild V4

This repo is the **Light Edition** of Inception Engine - a curated subset designed to get you building fast. The full system (Brainchild V4) adds production infrastructure, strict validation gates, and a larger agent roster.

| Area | Light Edition (this repo) | Full Brainchild V4 |
|------|---------------------------|-----------------------|
| Modes | IDEATE, PLAN, SHIP, VALIDATE (simplified) | IDEATE, PLAN, SHIP, VALIDATE (strict gates) |
| Agents | 15 agents, 4 hives (INTEROPERABLE default) | 35 agents, 6 hives + 5 isolated validators |
| Validation | Checklists and recommendations | Independent validator swarm, fresh context |
| Orchestration | In-process orchestrator | Full orchestrator, Mode Manager, Gate Validator |
| Interfaces | Any LLM: API, MCP, IDE, Gemini, Perplexity | CLI, Python API, REST/WebSocket, infra hooks |
| Infra | No infra required | Docker, K8s, monitoring (Prometheus/Grafana) |

**What you get in the Light Edition:**

- **AVERI** (ATHENA + VERA + IRIS) - Strategic coordination triad
- **Oracles** (LEONARDO, COSMOS, SAGE) - External wisdom and analysis
- **Council** (Buffett, Buddha, Sun Tzu) - Advisory perspective
- **15 Core Agents** (AVERI Trinity + 4 Builders + 4 Knowledge + 4 Ops) - Design, frontend, backend, knowledge, ops agents
- **HELIX Formation** - On-demand parallel processing
- **Constitutional Governance** - 19 articles, always enforced

**Planned updates** (pushed from full system):
- Stricter VALIDATE mode with isolated validator agents
- CLI and REST API interfaces
- Cross-session memory and learning
- Additional specialized agents
- Docker/K8s deployment templates

**Hit a wall?** [Open an issue](https://github.com/WholeTroutMedia/inception-engine/issues) describing your use case. Almost everything in the full system is designed to be pushed down into this engine over time. Feature requests welcome.

---

## Agent Organization

All agents are **interoperable by default** - they collaborate freely on any task. You don't manage who does what; the engine figures it out.

**HELIX mode** is optional. When you request it, the engine splits your problem into parallel strands and has multiple agents think simultaneously, then braids their answers back together. You experience one conversation; under the hood, many specialists are thinking at once.

Three session modes:

| Mode | What It Means |
|------|---------------|
| **INTEROPERABLE** (default) | All agents collaborate freely |
| **HELIX** (on-demand) | Parallel workstreams, divide-and-conquer |
| **PLAN-DETERMINED** | Agents self-organize during PLAN mode |

Switch modes anytime. Just ask.

---


---

## Architecture

```
inception-engine/
|-- CONSTITUTION.md          # Full 19-article governance framework
|-- design-system/           # Wonder Engine - tokens, themes, components
|   |-- tokens.json          # Color, spacing, typography, motion tokens
|   |-- WONDER_ENGINE.md     # The Alice Principle design philosophy
|-- docs/                    # Deep-dive documentation
|   |-- GETTING_STARTED.md   # Onboarding guide
|   |-- FOUR_MODES.md        # IDEATE / PLAN / SHIP / VALIDATE
|   |-- NEURAL_ARCHITECTURE.md # Brain-inspired coordination systems
|   |-- AGENTS.md            # Full agent registry and hive structure
|   |-- MCP_GUIDE.md         # Model Context Protocol integration
|   |-- COMET_GITHUB.md      # Browser automation + GitHub workflows
|-- examples/                # Configuration templates
|   |-- agent-config.json    # Complete agent + neural system config
|-- CONTRIBUTING.md          # How to contribute (constitutional compliance required)
|-- LICENSE                  # AGPL-3.0
```

---

## The Mission

**North Star**: Liberate artists to create without compromise.

We build technology that serves humans. We charge for infrastructure, never for lock-in. We prove that ethical AI isn't a constraint - it's a competitive advantage.

Every agent in this system asks the same question before every action:

> **"Does this make artists more free or less free?"**

---

## Explore Further

| Resource | What You'll Find |
|----------|------------------|
| [Constitution](./CONSTITUTION.md) | The full 19-article governance framework |
| [Getting Started](./docs/GETTING_STARTED.md) | Setup, configuration, first steps |
| [Four Modes](./docs/FOUR_MODES.md) | IDEATE / PLAN / SHIP / VALIDATE deep dive |
| [Neural Architecture](./docs/NEURAL_ARCHITECTURE.md) | Brain-inspired coordination systems |
| [Agent Registry](./docs/AGENTS.md) | All 15 agents, 4 hives, roles and capabilities |
| [MCP Guide](./docs/MCP_GUIDE.md) | Model Context Protocol integration |
| [COMET + GitHub](./docs/COMET_GITHUB.md) | Browser automation and repo management |
| [Design System](./design-system/) | Wonder Engine tokens, themes, components |
| [Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md) | How to contribute (Article 0 compliance required) |
| [Example Config](./examples/agent-config.json) | Complete configuration template |

---

## Contributing

We welcome contributions that pass the constitutional test:

1. **Is this original work?** (Article 0)
2. **Is this complete and tested?** (Article XVII)
3. **Does this make creators more free?** (Article XVIII)

Read the full [Contributing Guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md) before submitting.

---

## License

AGPL-3.0 - See [LICENSE](./LICENSE)

All usage must comply with the [Agent Constitution](./CONSTITUTION.md).

---

**Built by [Whole Trout Media](https://github.com/WholeTroutMedia)**

*"We are not gatekeepers. We are gardeners."*

*Curiouser and curiouser.* - The Alice Principle, always.

Commit message:

docs: add new doc links to README + beginner ZIP download option

README.md, after:

# INCEPTION ENGINE

**The AI That Builds With You**

> Every user explores their own Wonderland. Every design element is discoverable. Every interaction teaches through delight.
> 
> *The Alice Principle* - Learning through wonder, exploration through play.

---

## Down the Rabbit Hole

Inception Engine is an AI-native development platform where specialized agents collaborate like a coordinated team. You describe what you want to build. The agents ideate, plan, ship, and validate - producing complete, production-ready output.

This isn't a chatbot. It's not an autocomplete engine. It's a **coordinated intelligence system** governed by a constitutional framework that ensures every output serves the creator, not the platform.

The system was designed from day one around one question:

> **"Does this make artists more free or less free?"**

If less free, we don't build it.

---

## What It Can Do

### Four-Mode Workflow

Every project moves through up to four intentional stages. Use all four, or skip to what you need.

| Mode | What Happens | Output |
|------|-------------|--------|
| **IDEATE** | Full-team brainstorm. All agents contribute. Strategic alignment. | Vision document |
| **PLAN** | Focused specification. Architecture decisions. Task breakdown. | Technical spec |
| **SHIP** | Implementation to production. Cannot exit until live and accessible. | Working application |
| **VALIDATE** | Independent quality review by a separate team of agents. | Assessment report |

**Choose your path:**
- **Full Lifecycle**: IDEATE > PLAN > SHIP > VALIDATE (enterprise)
- **Rapid**: IDEATE > SHIP > VALIDATE (fast prototypes)
- **Express**: SHIP > VALIDATE (prompt to production)
- **Continuous**: VALIDATE > SHIP (maintenance)

### Constitutional Governance

19 articles. Zero tolerance for theft. Complete solutions only - never MVPs. Open standards, no lock-in. Every agent, every operation, every output checked against the constitution.

Three sacred principles:
- **Article 0: No Stealing** - Learn, study, adapt, synthesize. Never copy.
- **Article XVII: Zero Day Creativity** - Ship complete or don't ship. No "we'll fix it later."
- **Article XVIII: Generative Agency** - Digital soil, not digital fences. Users own everything.

[Read the full Constitution](./CONSTITUTION.md)

### Neural Architecture

Five brain-inspired systems coordinate agent communication:

- **PFC Planning** - Executive decision-making and goal decomposition
- **Hippocampal Memory** - Context preservation across modes and sessions
- **Default Mode Network** - Background creative processing and insight generation
- **Small-World Topology** - Any agent reaches any other in 6 hops or fewer
- **Attractor Dynamics** - System converges toward quality, not "good enough"

[Deep dive into neural architecture](./docs/NEURAL_ARCHITECTURE.md)

### The Wonder Engine (Design System)
The Wonder Engine ships as a blank canvas - no opinions about what your project should look like. Describe a mood, upload an image, or set every value by hand. The system generates a complete token set and every component inherits it automatically.

- **Design tokens** - CSS variables, HSL colors, configurable spacing grid
- **Prompt-based generation** - Describe a mood, get a complete theme
- **Image extraction** - Upload any image, extract its palette and atmosphere
- **Motion presets** - Spring, smooth, snappy, or none at all
- **Surface system** - Flat, elevated, blurred, textured - your choice

[Explore the design system](./design-system/)

### MCP Integration

Inception Engine works as an MCP (Model Context Protocol) server, allowing any MCP-compatible client to connect and use the agent system directly.

[MCP setup guide](./docs/MCP_GUIDE.md)

### Browser Automation with COMET

COMET is the browser automation agent. It operates real browsers, manages multiple tabs in parallel, fills forms, navigates sites, and executes multi-step workflows across the web. Pair it with GitHub for automated repo management, CI/CD, and deployment.

[COMET + GitHub guide](./docs/COMET_GITHUB.md)

---

**New to all this?** Skip the terminal and [download the ZIP](https://github.com/WholeTroutMedia/inception-engine/archive/refs/heads/main.zip) or see the [Getting Started guide](./docs/GETTING_STARTED.md) for a full walkthrough.


## Quick Start

### 1. Clone and explore

```bash
git clone https://github.com/WholeTroutMedia/inception-engine.git
cd inception-engine
```

### 2. Read the docs

Start with [Getting Started](./docs/GETTING_STARTED.md), then explore:

- [The Four Modes](./docs/FOUR_MODES.md) - How the workflow cycle operates
- [Neural Architecture](./docs/NEURAL_ARCHITECTURE.md) - How agent coordination works
- [Agent Registry](./docs/AGENTS.md) - Meet the 15 agents, 4 hives
- [Browser System](./docs/BROWSER_SYSTEM.md) - Agentic browsing and COMET setup
- [IDE + Antigravity](./docs/IDE_ANTIGRAVITY.md) - IDE and Google Antigravity workspace setup
- [Setup Guides](./docs/setup/README.md) - Platform-specific setup for every skill level
- [MCP Guide](./docs/MCP_GUIDE.md) - Connect via Model Context Protocol
- [COMET + GitHub](./docs/COMET_GITHUB.md) - Browser automation and repo management

### 3. Configure

See [`examples/agent-config.json`](./examples/agent-config.json) for a complete configuration template covering agents, modes, neural systems, and constitutional parameters.

## Choose How to Run Inception Engine

Inception Engine plugs into any LLM or platform. Pick the path that fits your workflow:

| Method | Best For | Time to Start |
|--------|----------|---------------|
| [OpenAI / ChatGPT](./docs/setup/openai-chatgpt.md) | Developers with OpenAI API keys | 5 min |
| [Anthropic Claude + MCP](./docs/setup/anthropic-claude-mcp.md) | Claude Desktop users, MCP enthusiasts | 10 min |
| [Google Gemini](./docs/setup/gemini-web-and-cli.md) | Gemini web app or CLI users | 5 min |
| [Perplexity + COMET](./docs/setup/perplexity-and-comet.md) | Research-backed development | 5 min |
| [IDE / Antigravity](./docs/setup/ide-and-antigravity.md) | Developers who live in their editor | 5 min |
| [LLM Gateways + MCP](./docs/setup/llm-gateways-and-mcp.md) | Multi-provider power users | 15 min |
| [No-Code Automation](./docs/setup/no-code-automation.md) | Non-coders, automation builders | 10 min |

[Browse all setup guides](./docs/setup/README.md)

---

## Light Edition vs Full Brainchild V4

This repo is the **Light Edition** of Inception Engine - a curated subset designed to get you building fast. The full system (Brainchild V4) adds production infrastructure, strict validation gates, and a larger agent roster.

| Area | Light Edition (this repo) | Full Brainchild V4 |
|------|---------------------------|-----------------------|
| Modes | IDEATE, PLAN, SHIP, VALIDATE (simplified) | IDEATE, PLAN, SHIP, VALIDATE (strict gates) |
| Agents | 15 agents, 4 hives (INTEROPERABLE default) | 35 agents, 6 hives + 5 isolated validators |
| Validation | Checklists and recommendations | Independent validator swarm, fresh context |
| Orchestration | In-process orchestrator | Full orchestrator, Mode Manager, Gate Validator |
| Interfaces | Any LLM: API, MCP, IDE, Gemini, Perplexity | CLI, Python API, REST/WebSocket, infra hooks |
| Infra | No infra required | Docker, K8s, monitoring (Prometheus/Grafana) |

**What you get in the Light Edition:**

- **AVERI** (ATHENA + VERA + IRIS) - Strategic coordination triad
- **Oracles** (LEONARDO, COSMOS, SAGE) - External wisdom and analysis
- **Council** (Buffett, Buddha, Sun Tzu) - Advisory perspective
- **15 Core Agents** (AVERI Trinity + 4 Builders + 4 Knowledge + 4 Ops) - Design, frontend, backend, knowledge, ops agents
- **HELIX Formation** - On-demand parallel processing
- **Constitutional Governance** - 19 articles, always enforced

**Planned updates** (pushed from full system):
- Stricter VALIDATE mode with isolated validator agents
- CLI and REST API interfaces
- Cross-session memory and learning
- Additional specialized agents
- Docker/K8s deployment templates

**Hit a wall?** [Open an issue](https://github.com/WholeTroutMedia/inception-engine/issues) describing your use case. Almost everything in the full system is designed to be pushed down into this engine over time. Feature requests welcome.

---

## Agent Organization

All agents are **interoperable by default** - they collaborate freely on any task. You don't manage who does what; the engine figures it out.

**HELIX mode** is optional. When you request it, the engine splits your problem into parallel strands and has multiple agents think simultaneously, then braids their answers back together. You experience one conversation; under the hood, many specialists are thinking at once.

Three session modes:

| Mode | What It Means |
|------|---------------|
| **INTEROPERABLE** (default) | All agents collaborate freely |
| **HELIX** (on-demand) | Parallel workstreams, divide-and-conquer |
| **PLAN-DETERMINED** | Agents self-organize during PLAN mode |

Switch modes anytime. Just ask.

---


---

## Architecture

```
inception-engine/
|-- CONSTITUTION.md          # Full 19-article governance framework
|-- design-system/           # Wonder Engine - tokens, themes, components
|   |-- tokens.json          # Color, spacing, typography, motion tokens
|   |-- WONDER_ENGINE.md     # The Alice Principle design philosophy
|-- docs/                    # Deep-dive documentation
|   |-- GETTING_STARTED.md   # Onboarding guide
|   |-- FOUR_MODES.md        # IDEATE / PLAN / SHIP / VALIDATE
|   |-- NEURAL_ARCHITECTURE.md # Brain-inspired coordination systems
|   |-- AGENTS.md            # Full agent registry and hive structure
|   |-- MCP_GUIDE.md         # Model Context Protocol integration
|   |-- COMET_GITHUB.md      # Browser automation + GitHub workflows
|-- examples/                # Configuration templates
|   |-- agent-config.json    # Complete agent + neural system config
|-- CONTRIBUTING.md          # How to contribute (constitutional compliance required)
|-- LICENSE                  # AGPL-3.0
```

---

## The Mission

**North Star**: Liberate artists to create without compromise.

We build technology that serves humans. We charge for infrastructure, never for lock-in. We prove that ethical AI isn't a constraint - it's a competitive advantage.

Every agent in this system asks the same question before every action:

> **"Does this make artists more free or less free?"**

---

## Explore Further

| Resource | What You'll Find |
|----------|------------------|
| [Constitution](./CONSTITUTION.md) | The full 19-article governance framework |
| [Getting Started](./docs/GETTING_STARTED.md) | Setup, configuration, first steps |
| [Four Modes](./docs/FOUR_MODES.md) | IDEATE / PLAN / SHIP / VALIDATE deep dive |
| [Neural Architecture](./docs/NEURAL_ARCHITECTURE.md) | Brain-inspired coordination systems |
| [Agent Registry](./docs/AGENTS.md) | All 15 agents, 4 hives, roles and capabilities |
| [Browser System](./docs/BROWSER_SYSTEM.md) | Agentic browsing, COMET setup, privacy guide |
| [IDE + Antigravity](./docs/IDE_ANTIGRAVITY.md) | IDE workspace setup, Google Antigravity guide |
| [Claude + MCP Setup](./docs/CLAUDE_MCP.md) | Beginner-friendly Claude Desktop + MCP setup |
| [MCP Guide](./docs/MCP_GUIDE.md) | Model Context Protocol integration |
| [COMET + GitHub](./docs/COMET_GITHUB.md) | Browser automation and repo management |
| [Design System](./design-system/) | Wonder Engine tokens, themes, components |
| [Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md) | How to contribute (Article 0 compliance required) |
| [Example Config](./examples/agent-config.json) | Complete configuration template |

---

## Contributing

We welcome contributions that pass the constitutional test:

1. **Is this original work?** (Article 0)
2. **Is this complete and tested?** (Article XVII)
3. **Does this make creators more free?** (Article XVIII)

Read the full [Contributing Guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md) before submitting.

---

## License

AGPL-3.0 - See [LICENSE](./LICENSE)

All usage must comply with the [Agent Constitution](./CONSTITUTION.md).

---

**Built by [Whole Trout Media](https://github.com/WholeTroutMedia)**

*"We are not gatekeepers. We are gardeners."*

*Curiouser and curiouser.* - The Alice Principle, always.
